<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="Untitled10">
  <title>About This Publication</title>
  <body>
    <p>This publication documents the DITA For Small Teams Docker-based system.</p>
    <p>If you want to jump right in, go to <xref keyref="getting-started/concept_qd2_gt4_t5"/>.</p>
    <p>Docker is a relatively new (as of early 2016) for managing software in platform-independent
      "containers" that can be more easily managed than traditional virtual machine images or simply
      installing various software components directly on a host machine.</p>
    <p>The goal of the DFST container approach is to provide a easy-to-provision, easy-to-update,
      easy-to-use instance of a DITA for Small Teams collection of system components. The container
      approach allows the same set of components to be used by a single user on a single machine or
      by multiple users with access to a shared server somewhere (within an enterprise or in the
      cloud).</p>
    <p>This publication is intended both for people who just want to the use the DFST components and
      people who want to contribute to this project or use the DFST components as a base for their
      own custom solution.</p>
    <p>This publication does not cover the details of the Docker technology. Please see the Docker
      documentation for instructions on installing the Docker tools needed to get and run
      containers. Docker is supported on all modern operating systems.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
