<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="Untitled2">
 <title>DFST System Configuration</title>
 <shortdesc>Using the DFST containers requires a little bit of configuration to reflect the details
    of where you have the containers deployed, as well as component-specific configuration that
    reflects your publication development details.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The main configuration details are:<ul id="ul_dld_t3d_55">
        <li>Git repository storage location: The mapping from the GitLab container's git repository
          storage to a directory on the host machine. The out-of-the-box DFST configuration provides
          a default volume mapping. You may want to change it. At a minimum you need to know what
          the volume mapping is so you can apply appropriate backup policies.</li>
        <li>Network details: The IP addresses and ports for each of the container-provided services.
          The DFST containers are run within the same DFST-specific Docker network (named "dfst").
          You need to know what IP address this network is exposed as on the Host machine. For
          distributed environments there may be additional network configuration required on the
          host machine to enable connection from other machines with appropriate security. For
          single-user or small-team setups the default Docker setup should work.<p>Users will need
            to know what IP addresses to use to access the GitLab server and the Link Management
            application. These details will be specific to your environment.</p></li>
        <li>Git repository setup: As with any shared git environment, somebody has to set up the git
          repositories within the GitLab server, set up appropriate users, and so on. There is
          nothing DFST-specific about this.</li>
        <li>Continuous integration setup: You will need to configure the GitLab continous
          integration server to reflect your local needs. The DFST container comes pre-configured to
          use the DITA Open Toolkit and some sample build jobs for common tasks such as generating
          PDF, HTML, and EPUBs and running the DITA Community Quality Assurance checker.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>See the container reference entires for each container for the configuration details.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
