<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="Untitled9">
    <title>DFST Container Quick Start</title>
    <shortdesc>If you are familiar with Docker you can follow these instructions to get going as
    quickly as possible. NOTE: These instructions are really just a placeholder. Once we have a
    complete set of composed Docker containers it will not be necessary to get and run the
    containers individually.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <ul id="ul_gf1_s54_t5">
        <li>
          <p>On Windows and OS X you must have the <xref keyref="website-docker-toolbox">Docker
              Toolbox</xref> installed and running. See the Docker documentation for details on how
            to run Docker. All Docker commands are run from the Docker command window (Windows) or
            from a terminal window with the Docker environment set (OS X).</p>
          <p>Under OS X you can use the Kitematic application to start a new Docker window or you
            can use the command:<codeblock>eval $(docker-machine env default)</codeblock></p>
          <p>To set the Docker environment in your current terminal window.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </prereq>
        <steps>
            <step>
        <cmd>Get the GitLab Docker container:</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock>docker pull gitlab/gitlab-ce</codeblock>
          <p>See the GitLab Docker documentation: <xref
              keyref="website-gitlab-container-documentation"
              >http://doc.gitlab.com/omnibus/docker/</xref> for details.</p>
        </info>
        <stepresult>Docker should download and install the container. You should see messages like
          this when it's
          done:<codeblock>Status: Downloaded newer image for gitlab/gitlab-ce:latest
Eliots-MBP:dfst-docker ekimber$</codeblock>
        </stepresult>
      </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
