<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qd2_gt4_t5">
 <title>Getting Started With DFST Docker</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Getting Started</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
 <shortdesc>The DITA for Small Teams Docker containers make it easy to set up a complete DFST
    environment on any machine using the Docker container technology.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Docker containers are packages that contain software applications that can be run on any
      machine with a "Docker machine". A Docker machine is a kind of virtual machine that can run
      Docker containers. Software providers can make pre-configured Docker containers available for
      others to use. Using the Docker software you can get and run Docker containers with a minimum
      of effort. Docker containers may also contain just data to be used by other containers or to
      be copied to host machines.</p>
    <p>The DITA for Small Teams project provides instructions for using a combination of
      off-the-shelf Docker containers and DFST-provided containers to quickly set up a working DITA
      for Small Teams environment on any machine, whether it's your personal laptop, a shared server
      within your office, or on a cloud managed service such as Amazon Web Services (AWS) or
      Microsoft Azure.</p>
    <p>As of August 2016, Docker provides Docker versions for OS X and Windows that provide tight
      integration of Docker with the operating system, making it about as easy as it could be to
      install, configure, and use Docker containers.</p>
    <p>These instructions reflect the use of Docker for Mac, Docker for Windows, or Docker Machine
      running under Linux. You can use the DFST containers with the older Docker Machine approach
      under Windows or OSX, but it's harder and less convenient.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
