<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="container-ref-link-manager-basex">
  <title>DFST DITA Open Toolkit Docker Container</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>dfst/dita-ot</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>The dfst/dita-ot container provides a generic DITA Open Toolkit image.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <p>The dita-ot container contains DITA Open Toolkit image as distributed by the DITA Open
        Toolkit team. You can use it directly if you don't need any custom plugins or you can use at
        as the base for a custom container that configures the Open Toolkit to suit your needs.</p>
      <p>The Open Toolkit container is required by the <xref
          keyref="container-ref-link-manager-basex"/> container, which uses its catalogs. It is also
        required by the <xref keyref="container-ref-dfst-gitlab"/> container,
        which uses it for running Open Toolkit build jobs.</p>
      <p/>
    </section>
    <section spectitle="Container Details">
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>URL</dt>
          <dd><xref href="https://hub.docker.com/r/dfst/dita-ot" format="html" scope="external"
              >https://hub.docker.com/r/dfst/dita-ot</xref></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>container name</dt>
          <dd>dfst/dita-ot<p>The latest version reflects the latest DITA Open Toolkit release.
              Containers for other versions use the OT version number as the tag, e.g.
              "dfst/dita-ot:1.8.5".</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section spectitle="Usage">
      <p>The container needs to be run and then not removed so that other containers can access its
        volumes. If you mount a local directory to the container's
          <filepath>/opt/dita-ot/userdata</filepath> volume, you can use the container to run the
        Open Toolkit against files on your local file system.</p>
      <p>The container also provides the entire Toolkit as the volume
          <filepath>/opt/dita-ot/DITA-OT</filepath>. Other containers can use this volume in order
        to have direct access to the open toolkit.</p>
      <p>To simply run the container so it is available to other
        containers:<codeblock>run --name=dita-ot dfst/dita-ot</codeblock></p>
      <p>The parameters are:<parml>
          <plentry>
            <pt>--name=dita-ot</pt>
            <pd>The name for the container. You can specify anything. Having set the name you can
              use it anywhere a container ID is expected, e.g. <codeph>docker exec -it dita-ot
                /bin/bash</codeph>.</pd>
          </plentry>
        </parml></p>
      <p>To mount local directory add the <parmname>-v</parmname> parameter:<codeblock>run --name=dita-ot <b>-v /Users/ekimber/workspace:/opt/dita-ot/userdata</b> /dfst/dita-ot</codeblock><parml>
          <plentry>
            <pt>-v ...</pt>
            <pd>Connects a local directory (<filepath>/Users/ekimber/workspace</filepath>) to the
                <filepath>/opt/dita-ot/userdata</filepath> volume in the container. Under OS X and
              Windows the local directory must be within a user's home directory. Under Linux it can
              be any directory. <note>There are potential permissions issues with using local
                directories under OS X and Windows due to the use of an intermediary virtual machine
                to run the docker machine. Instructions and workarounds TBD.</note><note
                type="caution">
                <p>If you don't specify a local directory then the databases will be created within
                  the container and will go away when the container is removed.</p>
              </note></pd>
          </plentry>
          <plentry>
            <pt>dfst/dita-ot</pt>
            <pd>This is the name of the container to run. If the container is not already on your
              system Docker will pull it down from the Docker hub, using the default tag "latest",
              which is normally what you want. If you want a specific tag you can specify it as
                  <codeph>:<varname>tagname</varname></codeph> after the container name. Note that
              the latest version will reflect the 2.x version of the Open Toolkit. Other versions
              use the Open Toolkit version number as the tag, e.g., "dfst/dita-ot:1.8.5".<p>If you
                need to update your local copy you can use <codeph>docker pull dfst/dita-ot</codeph>
                to get the latest version.</p></pd>
          </plentry>
        </parml>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section spectitle="Configuration Details">
      <p>This image is a generic Open Toolkit exactly as distributed by the Open Toolkit
        project.</p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
