<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="container-ref-link-manager-basex">
  <title>DFST Link Manager BaseX Docker Container</title>
  <shortdesc>The dfst/link-manager-basex container provides a BaseX HTTP server configured with the
    DITA for Small Teams Link Manager application.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <p>The container runs the BaseX HTTP server with the Link Manager Web application deployed. It
        depends on the DITA Open Toolkit, provided by a separate container running on the same
        Docker machine, to provide the XML entity resolution catalogs needed to parse DITA documents
        added to the database, either manually or through the DFST git hooks.</p>
      <p>See <xref keyref="container-ref-dfst-dita-ot"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section spectitle="Container Details">
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>URL</dt>
          <dd><xref href="https://hub.docker.com/r/dfst/link-manager-basex/" format="html"
              scope="external">https://hub.docker.com/r/dfst/link-manager-basex/</xref></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>container name</dt>
          <dd>dfst/link-manager-basex</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section spectitle="Usage">
      <p>To run the container in isolation you must first run the dfst/dita-ot container so that the
        Link Manager has access to the DITA Open Toolkit's catalogs. You should also mount a local
        directory as the <filepath>/data</filepath> volume so that data will be saved locally
        (otherwise your databases will be lost when the container is removed).</p>
      <p>A typical run command
        is:<codeblock>run --rm -it -p 8984:8984 \
    --volumes-from dita-ot \
    --name=linkmgr \
    -v /Users/ekimber/temp/data:/data  \
    dfst/link-manager-basex</codeblock></p>
      <p>The parameters are:<parml>
          <plentry>
            <pt>--rm</pt>
            <pd>Automatically removes the container when it stops. This is useful for development
              and testing to avoid having to manually remove the container every time you rebuild
              it. Omit this parameter if you want the container to be more persistent.</pd>
          </plentry>
          <plentry>
            <pt>-it</pt>
            <pd>Runs the container in interactive mode and with a terminal. Lets you see the
              messages the server puts up. Replace this with <parmname>-d</parmname> if you want to
              run the server in the background.</pd>
          </plentry>
          <plentry>
            <pt>-p 8984:8984</pt>
            <pd>This maps local (to your machine) port 8984 to container port 8984. The first port
              number is what you specify to connect to the Web application. If you are running on
              Windows or OS X then you need the IP address of your docker machine
                (<codeph>docker-machine ip default</codeph>). If you are running on Linux then you
              can use localhost and the port. You can use any available port for the first port
              value if 8984 doesn't work for some reason. If you make the port 80 then you don't
              have to specify the port when connecting to the server.</pd>
          </plentry>
          <plentry>
            <pt>--volumes-from dita-ot</pt>
            <pd>This makes the shared volumes from the dita-ot container available to this
              container. The value "dita-ot" is the name specified on the
                <parmname>--name</parmname> parameter when you started the dfst/dita-ot
              container.</pd>
          </plentry>
          <plentry>
            <pt>--name=linkmgr</pt>
            <pd>The name for the container. You can specify anything. Having set the name you can
              use it anywhere a container ID is expected, e.g. <codeph>docker exec -it linkmgr
                /bin/bash</codeph>.</pd>
          </plentry>
          <plentry>
            <pt>-v ...</pt>
            <pd>Connects a local directory (<filepath>/Users/ekimber/temp/data</filepath>) to the
                <filepath>/data</filepath> volume in the container. Under OS X and Windows the local
              directory must be within a user's home directory. Under Linux it can be any directory.
                <note>There are potential permissions issues with using local directories under OS X
                and Windows due to the use of an intermediary virtual machine to run the docker
                machine. Instructions and workarounds TBD.</note><note type="caution">
                <p>If you don't specify a local directory then the databases will be created within
                  the container and will go away when the container is removed.</p>
              </note></pd>
          </plentry>
          <plentry>
            <pt>dfst/link-manager-basex</pt>
            <pd>This is the name of the container to run. If the container is not already on your
              system Docker will pull it down from the Docker hub, using the default tag "latest",
              which is normally what you want. If you want a specific tag you can specify it as
                  <codeph>:<varname>tagname</varname></codeph> after the container name.<p>If you
                need to update your local copy you can use <codeph>docker pull
                  dfst/link-manager-basex</codeph> to get the latest version.</p></pd>
          </plentry>
        </parml>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section spectitle="Configuration Details">
      <p>The Link Manager configuration modifies the base BaseXHTTP configuration to add the
        following
        settings:<codeblock>CATFILE = /opt/dita-ot/DITA-OT/catalog-dita.xml
DTD = true
SKIPCORRUPT = true
CHOP = false</codeblock></p>
      <p>The <parmname>CATFILE</parmname> value refers to the volume used from the dfst/dita-ot
        container via the <parmname>--volumes-from</parmname> parameter explained above.</p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
