<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="extending_the_d4st_docker_system">
 <title>Extending the DFST Docker System</title>
 <shortdesc>It is easy to extend or modify the DFST system by defining your own containers that
    build on the base containers.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The Docker technology is layered in a way that makes it easy to build on the work of others
      with a minimum of duplication of code or runtime artifacts. The DFST containers have been
      setup to make extending them as easy as possible.</p>
    <p>The DFST containers are organized using the <cmdname>docker-compose</cmdname> facility. See
      the <xref keyref="website-docker-docs">Docker documentation</xref> for details on how to use
        <cmdname>docker-compose</cmdname>. This section provides instructions on how to build the
      out-of-the-box DFST containers using <cmdname>docker-compose</cmdname> and provides guidance
      on how to set up and use your own containers.</p>
    <p>These instructions assume that you have a copy of the d4st-docker project from GitHub (<xref
        keyref="website-d4st-github-d4st-docker-project"/>) in some convenient location, such as
        <filepath>c:\workspace\d4st-docker</filepath> or similar. In these instructions
        "<filepath>d4st-docker</filepath>" is used as the root directory for the project. Any
      relative paths in instructions are relative to the root of the project unless stated
      otherwise.</p>
    <p>The instructions use Linux/OS X file path conventions for simplicity but all the instructions
      should work as-is under Windows (or you can just spin up a Docker image with your favorite
      Unix distribution and work in there). </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
